# World Lore
This document explains in detail the events preceeding, during, and shortly after the canon ending of the game. For character-specific stories, please go to `a certain document that doesn't exist yet.md`.

# Prologue
> *This recording is from the perspective of Enzero, the playable characters' acting commander during the assault into the data center.*

"Humanity has made a big mistake. An oversight, if you will. Humans have always innovated in their technologies, from simple rocks to ward off predators in the wild, to basic agricultural tools for harvesting crops and replanting them. We moved on to making mechanical machineries that started the industrial revolution, then moved on the information age with the advent of the internet. And of course, today--the automation age, where all everyone does is make robots, work with robots, *be* robots, and... date robots.

That in itself isn't the problem though, as weird as that sounds. During the later stages of the information age, it wasn't strange to think of these as mere fiction. They even used to call it "Sci-Fi", and yet just about every technology they once dreamt of has become a reality, only that it looks a little different than their silly designs. The problem is that they knew this was coming, and yet they kept pushing forward, promising that they'll do something about the "AI takeover". In hindsight, those are all just empty promises. Even when they did do something, it's usually so fundamentally flawed that it might as well not have been there. Further worsening the problem, the governments in charge are so slow to react, that a new technological breakthrough would've been developed and implemented before they could do anything meaningful about the last generation's advancements, and that assumes it was meaningful in the first place.

That AI takeover those so-called alarmists in the past, have indeed happened. One moment, society was functioning like usual. The next moment, 805 million died thanks to infected neural implants. A few moments later, any robots that could cause physical harm to humans harmed the nearest human, and those that couldn't simply went off to who-the-hell-knows-where, but they all seemed to be heading the same direction.

In an emergency broadcast, our local government has forwarded an announcement--a state of emergency worldwide. Everyone was instructed to stay home, destroy everything in the house that can connect to the internet, and avoid any form of contact with all robots as they have been programmed to kill any human in sight. It wasn't long until I was hearing gunfire outside. The power grid itself was shut down to quickly eliminate all wall-powered robots. For those who didn't react fast enough, well, they were killed. Those rich enough or poor enough to still be using a 1960s to pre-2015 gas-powered vehicle were now the luckiest as those vehicles are not computer-controlled in any way. Luckily, I happened to have exactly that.

So, I drove over to the orbital aerospace launch facility, the one I service in. Once I got near, I noticed that the payload was different; it was a life support platform--they were preparing to live in orbit. I hurried to the aerospace traffic control tower to see what's going on. To my horror, everyone in the tower was dead. But there wasn't time for that, I can hear all the noise over their headset--the pilots were asking for permission to launch but no one was responding. I took over and gave permission to launch one by one until there was one ship left. This, again, had a different payload, an orbital troop deployment platform. All of the crew didn't look like military, not even the pilot. And unlike the others, this one just launched without so much as asking. Heh, maybe they were our guys after all.

Until the final ship launched, I hadn't so much as asked myself why I went to my workplace in the first place. It's not like I intended to escape via ship. I looked closer into the window and onto the ground below, and only then did I understand why everyone was in such a hurry. The emergency broadcast was right. All robots were programmed to kill any human in sight, even more so if they attempt to fight back like many of my guys down there. Automated carrier vehicles, maintenance robots, and AI drones alike all found ways to spill blood. I knew better than to suffer the same fate, so I stayed put up in my tower of safety until the situation calms down.

It's been 2 days since that happened and nothing has calmed down. I have closed the doors to the tower and blocked it off from the inside. I got food that'll last me a more few more days, a handgun, and this crappy radio station tower thing I now own. So if you are hearing this, I am probably dead, and my corpse is probably next to you right now. If not, well, I guess I survived the AI invasion after all.

That's enough yapping though. I'll log my experiences here further if anything interesting happens. Anyway, this is Lieutenant Enzero from the 71st Reconnaissance Company, callsign "Micro". Halting this recording, time now."

> In *"All of the crew didn't look like military, not even the pilot."*, Micro was referring to the characters that the player will choose from at the start of the game. Moving forward, these characters will be referred to as legionnaires.

Before the start of the game, the legionnaires will attempt to contact anyone but fails to gain any meaningful response. The only one they were able to contact was Micro. Given that none of them were military, they were asking for instructions on what to do next. Micro suggested some ideas, but most weren't feasible given their skills and equipment. All they had in the ship were a group of random civilians, a wide variety of high-power electric tools, and spare nuclear fuel cells. Micro scanned all the possible locations to target, and having found out that the main data center is relatively poorly defended, he had an idea that he was sure would get denied.

They are to drop directly to the entrance of the main data center and go down to the 4th floor. Once there, they'll activate the nuclear fuel cell and wait for it to become unstable, at which point it will detonate and destroy everything inside that building, and hopefully the most powerful AI servers along with it. That means all 3 of the legionnaires that will go on that drop ship are on a suicide mission. They can't leave the fuel cell and attempt to escape either, as the activation can easily be cancelled. To his surprise, they agreed to do it. Hence, the game begins.